So as I've stated previously,
a two dimensional array in Java is an array
which is referencing array objects.
So let's explore this with some sample code.
So we need to create a class called a
Two Dimensional Array in our Arrays Project
we've been working on.
Right, so in this class,
you can see that I've created two methods.
We've got printArray in the print row.
Wants to print the two dimensional array
and want to print just rows in the array.
So each prints that reference of the array first.
And looking down at the main method.
You can see that we're creating an array of
two rows with 10 columns of data.
So if you run this code,
you can see that all int values in the
two dimensional array were initialised to zero.
All right, now let's look at a non-uniform array.
And that's just really an array of array objects.
All right, paste this set of code.
And then formatting the way I have here
does help readability,
so it's something you might want to consider.
So we run this now.
And as you can see, the output for this segment
looks very much like the initialization code
and I think that's a good thing.
All right, so you can clone a two dimensional array
but it only clones the first dimension's array reference.
So let's add some code.
Okay so there's the code.
You can see that we're using the clone method there.
And I think that it is a shallow clone
as I mentioned, it only actually copies
the first dimension's array reference.
So let's actually run this.
So the output for this segment shows that the
outer array of the cloned array
and copied array have new addresses.
But the elements in those arrays are referencing
the same addresses as the copied array.
And as mentioned previously,
this is called a shallow copy.
But there is a way to do a deep copy.
So we're gonna paste some code
and we'll do that.
Okay, so there's the code.
You can see specifically the four loop
and standing on line 67 is where
we're taking a shallow copy
and making it deep by doing it manually
by actually going we're re-iterating
through the array element by element.
So we can actually run this now.
And you can see the output at the
bottom of the screen there.
Now note that row three where we made our change
is a new array reference
and a change to the original array element
did not get propagated to the cloned array.
And that's because we manually did this.
We actually forced a deep clone.
All right, so in this video,
I've shown you how to create a
two dimensional array in Java
and how to navigate through the
dimensions using for loops.
I've also demonstrated how to clone a
two dimensional array
and pointed out that clones
and copies are shallow.
So let's proceed now to the
out of ordinary video for arrays
and explore items that may not have been obvious
on our first pass through arrays.
See you in the next video.